Deploy Apache Spark on Google Axion C4A VM (#9)
odidev/arm-learning-paths: content/learning-paths/servers-and-cloud-computing/spark-on-gcp/background.md

---
title: "Background"

weight: 2

layout: "learningpathall"
---

## Google Axion C4A series

The Google Axion C4A series is a family of Arm-based virtual machines built on Google’s custom Axion CPU, which is based on Arm Neoverse-V2 cores. Designed for high-performance and energy-efficient computing, these VMs offer strong performance ideal for modern cloud workloads such as CI/CD pipelines, microservices, media processing, and general-purpose applications.

The C4A series provides a cost-effective alternative to x86 VMs while leveraging the scalability and performance benefits of the Arm architecture in Google Cloud.

To learn more about Google Axion, refer to the blog [Introducing Google Axion Processors, our new Arm-based CPUs](https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/compute/introducing-googles-new-arm-based-cpu).

## Apache Spark

Apache Spark is an open-source, distributed computing system designed for fast and general-purpose big data processing. 

It provides high-level APIs in Java, Scala, Python, and R, and supports in-memory computation for increased performance. 

> Spark is widely used for large-scale data analytics, machine learning, and real-time data processing. Learn more from the [Apache Spark official site](https://spark.apache.org/) and its d[etailed official documentation](https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Spark is widely used for large-scale data analytics, machine learning, and real-time data processing. Learn more from the [Apache Spark official website](https://spark.apache.org/) and its [detailed official documentation](https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/).
```
